We're not gonna do really much of
an intro, we're just gonna get moving.
And so this is the only thing I really
wanted to kind of point out and
then a couple other things
cuz I'm always off by one.
But this is one of my favorite people out
in the Twitter space is Casey Moratori,
as he is called.
And I just wanted to
read this bottom part,
which says people start to use the word
optimization as if it means thinking even
briefly about how efficient something is.
And at that point, quotes like, premature
optimization is the root of all evil,
are very damaging because they were not
talking about that meaning of the word.
They were talking about hand optimizing
assembly and stuff like that.
There's no way Tony Hoare or Knuth would
have ever told you number one on your list
was premature optimization, yet that is
what people started thinking it means.
And so, you always hear this anytime
you try to make something fast or
you talk about making something quick,
you hear the premature optimization
is the root of all evil quote.
And perhaps, just perhaps,
maybe not that correct.
And so good thing to think about.
Casey, if you wanna go give Casey you
follow, good guy Casey, appreciated him.
Welcome to JavaScript performance,
is this an oxymoron?
Maybe, maybe it's not, we'll find out.
So anyways, fast is kind of relative,
so that term doesn't mean anything.
So if you're gonna make JavaScript fast,
you can always have fast JavaScript.
Now will JavaScript ever
be as fast as Go or Rust?
Probably not in our lifetime or anyone's
lifetime, cuz it's just not the kind of
language to go that kind of speed,
but can it be fast comparatively?
Absolutely, you've seen all the bench
markings in the world where one framework
is five times faster than another
framework, and you see it all the time.
So fast does have meaning and
we are gonna try to relatively make our
JavaScript significantly faster, okay?
And we're gonna have a lot of
fun techniques and all that.
All right, so what is this course about?
Well, it says much about JavaScript
fundamentals as it is about performance.
If you stick through the whole course,
you're gonna learn a lot about
how JavaScript hopefully
works underneath the hoods.
These skills will be partially
transferable or mostly transferable to any
GC-based language, because similar
concepts exist kind of everywhere.
So if you go to Bun,
same thing's gonna happen.
You're gonna be able to apply
a lot of the same techniques,
cuz Bun is still JSC underneath the hood,
which is still JavaScript.
You'll be able to use some
of these things in Go.
And we're not gonna be
talking about the DOM today.
This is not about how to make
rendering order fantastic.
This is not about any sort of paint
optimizations, anything like that.
You're gonna need to get Ken Wheeler
in here if you wanna hear about that.
It will hopefully make you write better
code, because at the end of the day,
things that feel really good
are just awesome products.
If you've used Twitter on your phone and
just in the Chrome browser,
it crashes about every
fourth time you use it.
Because it runs out of memory and
the thing just locks up and
then it just completely
explodes on your phone.
And so that's really annoying.
I want to be able to just use
something without having it
just completely hard shut
down every single time.
We're not gonna deep dive into using the
tool Perf or Chrome Tracing or V8 Tracing.
We may hit like tracing GC or
trace GC as a node option for a moment.
We're not gonna do anything
into the deeper levels.
And we're not gonna really talk
about any micro optimization.
There's gonna be one moment where I'll
show you a micro benchmark to make
a point, but that is it.
Micro benchmarks are largely deceiving.
You can make pretty much anything look
fast if you work hard enough with
the micro benchmark.
So we're not gonna be doing any of that.
And we're also gonna not do any sort of
like, hey, when you create an object,
always have your keys in the same order,
always have the same types.
We're not gonna be talking about
that type of optimization either.
That's a series of tricks
that are applicable,
that can be really, really good.
But in five years,
are they still gonna be good?
We don't know, we don't know what
kind of new achievements there are.
We don't know what,
how things are gonna be done.
Think about all the dumb
things you used to do,
like setting an array length to be zero.
Used to be the quickest way to empty
an array rather than creating a new array.
If you have short-lived objects,
is that still a thing today?
Probably not.
And so it's like, now you have a whole
different way you have to think about
things, comparatively to the old
wisdom of minusing length by one
to pop something off as
opposed to calling pop.
There's all sorts of dumb things
that we used to do in JavaScript try
to make it fast.
So I don't wanna go over any of those
things cuz they're not as exciting, right,
and they just tend to fade.
All right, long rambling intro,
pretty much done, there you go.
Hopefully, everybody's excited about that.